1. Proliferation of Mobile and Wireless Devices :

        a.Proliferation means growth .
        b. reducing size and cost played major role .
        c. earlier users have to decide between Wireless phone and PDA( Personal Digital Assistant) but now they can have both in single device.
        d. today users have compact smartphone with internet browing capabilities.
        e. simple hand held devices are now capable of running complex applications.
        f. MOBILE COMPUTING =  transfer of data, voice and video from computer to other devices .
        e. Types of Mobile computers : 
        Portable Computer -> ex. -> laptop, keyboard attached to screen. foldable and easy to carry.
        Tablet Pc -> ex. -> ipad, touch screen, no keyboard.
        Internet Tablet -> Focussed on internet browsing, email, multimedia, games, etc.
        PDA ->  used for personal information management, calendar, contacts, etc.
        smartphone -> combination of PDA and mobile phone. powerful processors and large memory. 


    Imp terms :
    1. Mobile COMPUTING : transfer of data, voice and video from computer to other devices .     mobile setting, Wireless connectivity.
    2. Wireless computing : utilizing wireless network for data transfer. , wireless data transmission .
    3. hand-held devices : small,portable,one handed operation, ex. -> smartphone, PDA, etc. , task specific design.

2. Credit Card Fraud in Mobile and Wireless Applications :

        Credit card fruad = unauthorized use of credit card to obtain goods or services.    , 3 types of frauds ->
        a. Lost or stolen card fraud : card is lost or stolen and used by unauthorized person.
        b. Card not present fraud : card details are used to make online purchases.
        c. Counterfeit card fraud : card details are copied and used to make purchases.

        to protect from frauds, credit card companies have implemented various security measures like ->
        Do's ->
        a. Chip and pin technology : chip embedded in card, pin is required to make transaction.
        b. sing you credit card 
        c. make photocopy of both side to recover card number 
        d. change the default pin provided by bank.
        e. use secure websites for online transactions.
        f. enter your pin in only secure environment.

        Don'ts -> 

        a. don't share your pin with anyone.
        b. don't write your pin on card.
        c. don't use your card on unsecure websites.
        d. don't use your card on unsecure atm's.
        e. don't leave your card unattended.
        f. don't leave your payment receipt unattended.



3. Attack on Mobile / Security challenges : 
    Security challenges posed by mobile devices are ->
        a. Managing the Registry setting and configuartion : unauthorized users may try to change the registry settings and configuration of mobile devices.
                            ex: Microsoft Async Services, used to synchronize data between mobile devices and desktops.
        b. Mangaging the Authentications service security : PIN, password, biometric, etc.
        c. Cryptography security : securing data on mobile during transmission and storage.
        d. LDAP security : Lightweight Directory Access Protocol, used to access and maintain directory services.
        e. RAS security : Remote Access Serever security, used to connect to remote network.
        f. Medial player control security 
        g. networking API security : Application Programming Interface, used to connect to network.
    
    Attacks on smartphone  -> 
    1.Mobile phone theft : physically stealing the phone.
    2.Mobile Virues : malicious software that can infect mobile devices to steal data.
    3. Mishing(mobile phishing) : stealing personal information by sending text messages.
    4. Vishing(voice phishing) : stealing personal information by making phone calls.
    5.Smishing (SMS phishing) : stealing personal information by sending SMS.
    6.hacking bluetooth : unauthorized access to bluetooth enabled devices.

4. Mobile Devices : security implications for organizations : 
    Threats to organizations from mobile devices are -> 
    1. Managing everyone's people devices which are given by organization - > 
        Kon kya use kr rha hai , koi unauthorized use to nhi kr rha , after office hours use to nhi kr rha , etc.
    2. Storage devices (Usb,Pendrive) threate - > 
        usb se data to nhi chura rha , koi virus to nhi dal rha system me , due to compact size difficult to detect. 
    3. Lost or stolen devices - > 
        unauthorized access , value of data stored in device > value of device. 

5. Organizational Measures for Mobile : 
    organization kya kr skti hai mobile devices se data chori hone se bachane ke liye ->
    1. Encrypt their DATABASE : 
        data ko encrypt krke store krna , so that even if device is lost or stolen , data is safe.
        strong encryption algorithm use krna.
    2. 2factor authentication : 
        2factor authentication use krna , like password and OTP.
    3.Awareness and training : 
        employees ko training deni chahiye , how to use mobile devices securely.
    4. usb,pendrive ko allow nhi krna . 
    5. in case of lost device , turant police station jake cyber cell me report krna , aur us device ko remotely wipe krna.